packages/core/README.md, before:

# DevContainer Wizard

A comprehensive CLI tool to set up fully equipped Web3 development containers. Features an interactive wizard for creating custom environments with advanced security hardening, git integration, and pre-configured toolchains, or quickly launch pre-built containers for common workflows.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Dev Containers can improve your workflow, but they are **not a fully secure environment**.  
> If you need to run untrusted or suspicious code, use [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/new?hide_repo_select=true&ref=main&template_repository=theredguild/devcontainer), GitPod, or a similar remote setup — **never run it directly on your machine**.


> [!CAUTION]
> **VS Code considerations:**
>
> VS Code does a lot to improve user experience, but that comes with security tradeoffs. For example, by default, VS Code allows API calls to open new terminals, even bypassing the host machine:
> ```bash
> code --command workbench.action.terminal.newLocal
> ```
> We're working on an article covering all the tricks VS Code uses — stay tuned.

![DevContainer Wizard](./assets/main.gif)

## Requirements

1. **Node.js 18+** and a package manager (**pnpm**, **npm**, or **yarn**) for installing the CLI.

2. For use with [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) you need to install the [Dev Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers). We recommend reading the [Dev Containers documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers) for more information.

### Full requirements to run Dev Containers

- **Operating system**: Linux, macOS, or Windows 10/11. On Windows, **WSL2** is recommended for best performance.
- **Container runtime**: One of the following:
  - **Docker Desktop** (macOS/Windows) or **Docker Engine** (Linux) with the `docker` CLI available
  - Alternatively, **Podman 4+** with the `podman-docker` shim to provide a `docker`-compatible CLI
- **Docker Compose v2**: Available as `docker compose` (bundled with Docker Desktop; on Linux install the Compose plugin).
- **Git**: Version 2.x or later.
- **Node.js 18+** and a package manager (**pnpm**, **npm**, or **yarn**) to install `@devcontainers/cli` globally.
- **Editor**: **VS Code** with the **Dev Containers** extension, or use **GitHub Codespaces** as an alternative (no local runtime required).
- **Permissions**: Ability to run containers (e.g., membership in the `docker` group on Linux, or run with `sudo`).
- **Network access**: To pull base images and extensions on first run.

## Install

To install our pre-realease clone this repo and run:

```bash
npm i -g devcontainer-wizard

#or

pnpm add -g devcontainer-wizard
```

## How to use

### Quick start

```bash
devcontainer-wizard
```

### Create your own devcontainer

![DevContainer Wizard](./assets/create.gif)

```bash
devcontainer-wizard create --name <name>
```

The wizard will prompt you for:

- **Devcontainer name**: defaults to the current directory name.
- **Languages**: Solidity, Vyper.
- **Frameworks**: Foundry, Hardhat, Ape (ApeWorX).
- **Fuzzing & testing**: Echidna, Medusa, Halmos, Ityfuzz, Aderyn.
- **Security tooling**: Slither, Mythril, Crytic (crytic-compile), Panoramix, Semgrep, Heimdall.
- **System hardening**: Choose between predefined security recipes or manual configuration:
  - **Security Recipes**: Pre-configured security profiles for common use cases
  - **Manual Configuration**: Fine-grained control over individual security options
- **Git repository integration**: Automatically clone a repository during container build
  - Repository URL validation
  - Optional branch/tag specification
- **VS Code extensions**: Choose from curated extension collections or select your own.
- **Save path**: where `.devcontainer/<name>` will be created.

When finished, the CLI writes `Dockerfile` and `devcontainer.json` to `.devcontainer/<name>` and offers to start it immediately. It also prints the exact `devcontainer up` command you can run later.

#### Security Profiles

The wizard includes predefined security profiles copied from prebuilt devcontainers, so you can build your own container with custom tools and a tested security profile:

- **Development**: Balanced security for daily development work
  - *Features*: Secure temp directories, no privilege escalation, AppArmor, secure DNS, VS Code security

- **Hardened**: Ephemeral workspace without copying the host folder
  - *Features*: Ephemeral workspace, maximum capability restrictions

- **Air-gapped**: Hardened profile + no network
  - *Features*: No network, ephemeral workspace, maximum capability restrictions

-
Experimental profiles:

- **Network Restricted Analysis**: API access and package installs without packet crafting
- **CI-like Local Runner**: Mirrors CI behavior with an immutable file system
- **Package Install Session**: Install packages while maintaining security guardrails
- **Security Research (Controlled Net)**: API testing without packet crafting capabilities

#### Manual Security Hardening Options

When choosing manual configuration, you have fine-grained control over:

**File System Security**:
- Read-only file system
- Secure temp directories (noexec, nosuid flags)

**Workspace Isolation**:
- Ephemeral workspace (tmpfs mount)

**Container Security**:
- Drop all capabilities
- No new privileges (prevents SUID/SGID escalation)
- AppArmor profile

**Network Configuration**:
- Enhanced DNS security (Cloudflare DNS)
- Complete network isolation
- Disable IPv6
- Disable raw packets (prevents packet crafting)

**Application Security**:
- VS Code security (disables auto-tasks, workspace trust, telemetry)

**Resource Limits**:
- Light (512MB, 2 cores)
- Standard (2GB, 4 cores)  
- Heavy (4GB, 8 cores)

#### Git Repository Integration

The wizard can now automatically clone a git repository during container build:

- **Repository URL**: Supports `https://`, `git@`, `ssh://`, and `git://` protocols
- **Branch/Tag Selection**: Optionally specify a specific branch or tag to clone
- **Validation**: Built-in URL validation ensures proper git repository format
- **Build-time Integration**: Repository is cloned into `/home/vscode/repos` during the image build and copied into `/workspace` on first start

This feature is particularly useful for:
- Setting up development environments with existing codebases
- Workshop environments with predefined project templates
- Audit environments with specific contract repositories

#### VS Code Extensions

The wizard offers curated extension collections:

- **Recommended** (default): Automatically installs Tintin's Ethereum Security Bundle
- **Custom selection**: Choose from organized collections:
  - **Tintin's Extensions**: Security-focused tools (Ethereum Security Bundle, EthOver, WeAudit, Inline Bookmarks, Solidity Language Tools, Graphviz Preview, Decompiler)
  - **Nomic Foundation**: Hardhat + Solidity integration
  - **Olympix**: AI-powered smart contract analysis

### Start pre-built containers

![DevContainer Wizard](./assets/prebuilt.gif)

Prebuilt containers are stored in the [theredguild/devcontainer](https://github.com/theredguild/devcontainer) repository.

- **Start a pre-built container**:

```bash
devcontainer-wizard prebuilt --name <name>
```

- **List available pre-built containers**:

```bash
devcontainer-wizard prebuilt --list
```

- **Available pre-built containers**: `minimal`,  `auditor`, `Hardened`, `paranoid`, `eth-security-toolbox`, `legacy`.
- You will be prompted how to open it (Terminal, VS Code, or Cursor).

#### GitHub Codespaces

You can also run prebuilt containers using GitHub Codespaces: 

[![Open in Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://github.com/codespaces/new?hide_repo_select=true&ref=main&template_repository=theredguild/devcontainer)

## Pre-built containers

- **Minimal**: Use Hardhat and Foundry, doing zero config.
- **Auditor**: Audit smart contracts.
- **Hardened**: Use an Hardened workspace without copying your environment.
- **Air-gapped**: Air-gapped environment.
- **ETH Security Toolbox**: Auditor environment with Trail of Bits selected tools.
- **Legacy**: The Red Guild's original devcontainer.

## How to contribute

### Wizard

We welcome contributions! To get started:

1. **Fork this repository** and clone it to your machine.
2. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```
3. **Make your changes** in a new branch.
4. **Test your changes** locally.
5. **Commit and push** your branch.
6. **Open a pull request** with a clear description of your changes.

For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

**Tips:**
- Follow the existing code style and structure.
- Keep documentation concise and up to date.
- If adding a new color or symbol, update `src/ui/styling/colors.ts` or `src/ui/styling/symbols.ts` as appropriate.

Thank you for helping improve DevContainer Wizard!

### Pre-built containers

We welcome contributions to the pre-built containers! To get started:

1. **Fork the [theredguild/devcontainer](https://github.com/theredguild/devcontainer) repository** and clone it to your machine.
2. **Make your changes** in a new branch.
3. **Test your changes** locally.
4. **Commit and push** your branch.
5. **Open a pull request** with a clear description of your changes.

Commit message:

chore(release): 1.1.1 - relocate docs assets and update security notes
- Move GIF assets from packages/core/assets to /assets

- Update README image paths to /assets across root, core, wrapper

- Expand VS Code security note (API calls, gpg-agent sockets, blind-signing risk); mention upcoming article

- Bump versions: @theredguild/devcontainer-wizard and wrapper to 1.1.1

- Update wrapper dependency to @theredguild/devcontainer-wizard@1.1.1

No runtime changes.

packages/core/README.md, after:

# DevContainer Wizard

A comprehensive CLI tool to set up fully equipped Web3 development containers. Features an interactive wizard for creating custom environments with advanced security hardening, git integration, and pre-configured toolchains, or quickly launch pre-built containers for common workflows.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Dev Containers can improve your workflow, but they are **not a fully secure environment**.  
> If you need to run untrusted or suspicious code, use GitHub Codespaces, GitPod, or a similar remote setup — **never run it directly on your machine**.


> [!CAUTION]
> **VS Code considerations:**
>
> VS Code does a lot to improve user experience, but that doesn't come without security tradeoffs. VS Code might allow API calls that can lead to running arbitrary commands on the host machine, and by default, it shares sockets such as the gpg-agent’s, which means keys stored outside the container can be used for signing. This opens the door to blind-signing commits scenarios, where a process inside the container may trigger signatures without the user’s full awareness. If you want to deep dive into these "tricks", we're working on an article covering the most relevant of them — stay tuned.

![DevContainer Wizard](/assets/main.gif)

## Requirements

1. **Node.js 18+** and a package manager (**pnpm**, **npm**, or **yarn**) for installing the CLI.

2. For use with [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) you need to install the [Dev Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers). We recommend reading the [Dev Containers documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers) for more information.

### Full requirements to run Dev Containers

- **Operating system**: Linux, macOS, or Windows 10/11. On Windows, **WSL2** is recommended for best performance.
- **Container runtime**: One of the following:
  - **Docker Desktop** (macOS/Windows) or **Docker Engine** (Linux) with the `docker` CLI available
  - Alternatively, **Podman 4+** with the `podman-docker` shim to provide a `docker`-compatible CLI
- **Docker Compose v2**: Available as `docker compose` (bundled with Docker Desktop; on Linux install the Compose plugin).
- **Git**: Version 2.x or later.
- **Node.js 18+** and a package manager (**pnpm**, **npm**, or **yarn**) to install `@devcontainers/cli` globally.
- **Editor**: **VS Code** with the **Dev Containers** extension, or use **GitHub Codespaces** as an alternative (no local runtime required).
- **Permissions**: Ability to run containers (e.g., membership in the `docker` group on Linux, or run with `sudo`).
- **Network access**: To pull base images and extensions on first run.

## Install

To install our pre-realease clone this repo and run:

```bash
npm i -g devcontainer-wizard

#or

pnpm add -g devcontainer-wizard
```

## How to use

### Quick start

```bash
devcontainer-wizard
```

### Create your own devcontainer

![DevContainer Wizard](./assets/create.gif)

```bash
devcontainer-wizard create --name <name>
```

The wizard will prompt you for:

- **Devcontainer name**: defaults to the current directory name.
- **Languages**: Solidity, Vyper.
- **Frameworks**: Foundry, Hardhat, Ape (ApeWorX).
- **Fuzzing & testing**: Echidna, Medusa, Halmos, Ityfuzz, Aderyn.
- **Security tooling**: Slither, Mythril, Crytic (crytic-compile), Panoramix, Semgrep, Heimdall.
- **System hardening**: Choose between predefined security recipes or manual configuration:
  - **Security Recipes**: Pre-configured security profiles for common use cases
  - **Manual Configuration**: Fine-grained control over individual security options
- **Git repository integration**: Automatically clone a repository during container build
  - Repository URL validation
  - Optional branch/tag specification
- **VS Code extensions**: Choose from curated extension collections or select your own.
- **Save path**: where `.devcontainer/<name>` will be created.

When finished, the CLI writes `Dockerfile` and `devcontainer.json` to `.devcontainer/<name>` and offers to start it immediately. It also prints the exact `devcontainer up` command you can run later.

#### Security Profiles

The wizard includes predefined security profiles copied from prebuilt devcontainers, so you can build your own container with custom tools and a tested security profile:

- **Development**: Balanced security for daily development work
  - *Features*: Secure temp directories, no privilege escalation, AppArmor, secure DNS, VS Code security

- **Hardened**: Ephemeral workspace without copying the host folder
  - *Features*: Ephemeral workspace, maximum capability restrictions

- **Air-gapped**: Hardened profile + no network
  - *Features*: No network, ephemeral workspace, maximum capability restrictions

-
Experimental profiles:

- **Network Restricted Analysis**: API access and package installs without packet crafting
- **CI-like Local Runner**: Mirrors CI behavior with an immutable file system
- **Package Install Session**: Install packages while maintaining security guardrails
- **Security Research (Controlled Net)**: API testing without packet crafting capabilities

#### Manual Security Hardening Options

When choosing manual configuration, you have fine-grained control over:

**File System Security**:
- Read-only file system
- Secure temp directories (noexec, nosuid flags)

**Workspace Isolation**:
- Ephemeral workspace (tmpfs mount)

**Container Security**:
- Drop all capabilities
- No new privileges (prevents SUID/SGID escalation)
- AppArmor profile

**Network Configuration**:
- Enhanced DNS security (Cloudflare DNS)
- Complete network isolation
- Disable IPv6
- Disable raw packets (prevents packet crafting)

**Application Security**:
- VS Code security (disables auto-tasks, workspace trust, telemetry)

**Resource Limits**:
- Light (512MB, 2 cores)
- Standard (2GB, 4 cores)  
- Heavy (4GB, 8 cores)

#### Git Repository Integration

The wizard can now automatically clone a git repository during container build:

- **Repository URL**: Supports `https://`, `git@`, `ssh://`, and `git://` protocols
- **Branch/Tag Selection**: Optionally specify a specific branch or tag to clone
- **Validation**: Built-in URL validation ensures proper git repository format
- **Build-time Integration**: Repository is cloned into `/home/vscode/repos` during the image build and copied into `/workspace` on first start

This feature is particularly useful for:
- Setting up development environments with existing codebases
- Workshop environments with predefined project templates
- Audit environments with specific contract repositories

#### VS Code Extensions

The wizard offers curated extension collections:

- **Recommended** (default): Automatically installs Tintin's Ethereum Security Bundle
- **Custom selection**: Choose from organized collections:
  - **Tintin's Extensions**: Security-focused tools (Ethereum Security Bundle, EthOver, WeAudit, Inline Bookmarks, Solidity Language Tools, Graphviz Preview, Decompiler)
  - **Nomic Foundation**: Hardhat + Solidity integration
  - **Olympix**: AI-powered smart contract analysis

### Start pre-built containers

![DevContainer Wizard](./assets/prebuilt.gif)

Prebuilt containers are stored in the [theredguild/devcontainer](https://github.com/theredguild/devcontainer) repository.

- **Start a pre-built container**:

```bash
devcontainer-wizard prebuilt --name <name>
```

- **List available pre-built containers**:

```bash
devcontainer-wizard prebuilt --list
```

- **Available pre-built containers**: `minimal`,  `auditor`, `Hardened`, `paranoid`, `eth-security-toolbox`, `legacy`.
- You will be prompted how to open it (Terminal, VS Code, or Cursor).

#### GitHub Codespaces

You can also run prebuilt containers using GitHub Codespaces: 

[![Open in Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://github.com/codespaces/new?hide_repo_select=true&ref=main&template_repository=theredguild/devcontainer)

## Pre-built containers

- **Minimal**: Use Hardhat and Foundry, doing zero config.
- **Auditor**: Audit smart contracts.
- **Hardened**: Use an Hardened workspace without copying your environment.
- **Air-gapped**: Air-gapped environment.
- **ETH Security Toolbox**: Auditor environment with Trail of Bits selected tools.
- **Legacy**: The Red Guild's original devcontainer.

## How to contribute

### Wizard

We welcome contributions! To get started:

1. **Fork this repository** and clone it to your machine.
2. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```
3. **Make your changes** in a new branch.
4. **Test your changes** locally.
5. **Commit and push** your branch.
6. **Open a pull request** with a clear description of your changes.

For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

**Tips:**
- Follow the existing code style and structure.
- Keep documentation concise and up to date.
- If adding a new color or symbol, update `src/ui/styling/colors.ts` or `src/ui/styling/symbols.ts` as appropriate.

Thank you for helping improve DevContainer Wizard!

### Pre-built containers

We welcome contributions to the pre-built containers! To get started:

1. **Fork the [theredguild/devcontainer](https://github.com/theredguild/devcontainer) repository** and clone it to your machine.
2. **Make your changes** in a new branch.
3. **Test your changes** locally.
4. **Commit and push** your branch.
5. **Open a pull request** with a clear description of your changes.
